Add a NEST documentation style guide (#1986)
nest/nest-simulator: doc/userdoc/styleguide/styleguide.rst

The NEST documentation style guide
==================================

.. contents::

>   :local:

Author: the option :local: just needs to be indented, and if there were additional items for the directive, they would all have to have the same indentation. I dont know of a specific rule for how big of an indent it should be.

Why do we have a style guide?
-----------------------------

This style guide was created to provide a single reference point for content
creation in NEST. This helps ensure the NEST user-level documentation remains
clear and consistent. The style choices we make here are meant to follow the
major trends in technical writing for software.

General guidelines about writing for NEST
-----------------------------------------

Writing documentation: a few tips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Be concise - Use short words and sentences; avoid unnecessary modifiers

Author: @heplesser I agree with you; a hyphen is a poor choice here, and I will update this. But I learned a new German word! Gedankenstrich = em dash :)

- Be consistent - Follow this style guide and relevant templates

- Be specific - Avoid vague language; clarity is key

- Focus your message - Start with what's most important, and keep text relevant
  within given section

- Write for your reader - Try to understand what your reader needs to know;
  include context to what you're saying

- Provide examples - Show don't tell; if you can use code snippets, screenshots,
  or figures to illustrate a point, do so!

- Avoid terms like simply, just, or easy - your knowledge does not always equal
  your readers.  Don't make your reader feel bad because they -simply- didn't
  understand something.

- Write positively -  Use positive language rather than negative language

Remember that the primary purpose of the documentation is to provide
information to NEST users who are looking for it.

Voice
~~~~~~

Voice is *how* we talk to people through writing. The voice encompasses
substance, style, and tone.

Our voice is

- empathetic - we write thinking of who we are writing for and what their needs
  are
- relaxed - we write in natural, conversational way rather than an authoritative

>   way

Author: Yes, this is probably good to mention. as fun and tempting as it can be, not everyone knows the same references.

Use 'you' to indicate the reader and 'we' to indicate yourself (the writer and
possibly the NEST team).

The language we use
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We follow spelling and grammar rules of American English.

The markup language we use is reStructuredText. This includes documentation
blocks in files written in Python and cpp.

We avoid slang or jargon that is unnecessary or could be confusing to readers.

We do, however, use terminology appropriate to NEST and neuroscience when
specific and exact terms are needed, which is often. But explanations or
references should be provided for clarity in introductory texts.

> If you have further questions about style not addressed here, see <<STANDARDIZED STYLE GUIDE>>

Author: @heplesser  This is an external guide that we could use as a reference; basically the idea is that we only keep a limited set of guidelines or rules and use a comprehensive source, such as the [Microsoft style guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/), as an authority on questions that arise. For example, if someone wants to know if we should put spaces around an em dash - rather than adding it to our guide, we refer person to reference. I explicitly mention the Microsoft Style Guide because it is and will very likely continue to be well maintained and is a style guide for the computer screen. So the MS guide _or something similar_ may be  a better choice than say, the Chicago Manual or APA style guides.

This is just a suggestion - I saw other projects do this, and thought it could be useful, but it's certainly not a necessity.

Active voice
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prefer the active voice, where the subject acts on object.

If the object needs emphasis rather than subject, use passive voice. But ensure
that you cannot improve the sentence by using the active voice.

Types of formatting
-------------------

We use specific formatting marks to help readers scan through and find what

> they need, as well as provide references to important terms.

Author: Sections have been rearranged so the links to reST docs are further up

Underlines for headings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

ReStructuredText uses several types of underline markers for headings. It's
important that the length of the underline is at least as long as the words
in the heading.

In general, we try to follow the pattern of

* First heading: ===
* Second heading: ---
* Third heading: ~~~
* Fourth heading: ^^^

"Double quotes"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We use double quotes for strings in code, for example

> (nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha")).

Author: Yeah, I wasn't sure about this one as we have a lot of both types. 
Although consistency over all files is nice, an alternative is to say you can choose either single or double quotes, but be consistent within a single document/script. Or something like restructured text documentation files should use double quotes / single quotes.

> (nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha")).

Reviewer: We faced (actually, are still facing) this issue in the NESTML codebase as well, which is a horrible incongruous mix of single and double quotes. We want to standardise on double quotes, as PEP 257 dictates the use of double quotes in triple quoted strings. Global consistency should definitely be a desideratum, but leaves one to wonder how strongly this can be enforced in practice (this will almost definitely be overlooked in PR reviews *n* years down the line).

> (nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha")).

Reviewer 2: I added this question and the style guide as such to the "in depth" part of the next [ONDVC](https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/wiki/2021-04-26-Open-NEST-Developer-Video-Conference).

> Double or single quotes should not be used as an emphasis marker for text.

Author: you should not use the "double quote" or 'single quote' to emphasize text. 
If you have something "important" to highlight - the quotes can be read as sarcasm.

> Double or single quotes should not be used as an emphasis marker for text.

Author: improved text

\``Double backticks\``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Use double backticks for

Author: Right now there is no real logic; it's mostly based on what we already do in (most/some) cases. But I think this would be a good idea, as long as we consider what the final output will look like and ensure readability is not negatively affected.

  - inline code
  - objects/functions

>   - model names

Author: I think the formatting markup we want for all these items needs to be discussed. One thing that came up is that we should consider meta-characters (I think is what they're called). For example, the use of the double back slash `\\` --if it's not in double back ticks, it will show up as a single slash. In those cases, we need to use double back ticks or escape the characters, but that might be confusing if looking at the raw rst files.

>   - NEST-specific vocabulary

Author: Currently, a catch-all for any other terms that have a NEST specific definition but not included in other categories. Perhaps something like 'events' (although just thinking about this - these terms should be linked to the glossary, and thus will automatically have the format set for restructured text roles . . . but we could adapt the format).

  - function call (e.g., ``nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha")`` or  (``Create`` )
  - Paths (e.g, You can find the models in ``nest-simulator/pynest/examples``)
  - Key value pairs (``{key: value}``)
  - Variables with assigned values ``x = 10``

\`Single backticks\`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use single backticks for

> - Keys

Author: a key as in a key, value pair
This should be made more clear

- Parameters
- Variable names
- Values

but use double backticks when showing a complete example of variable with
assigned value (e.g., \``volt = 37.0``)

An example:

::

   Here we use the ``Create`` function to instantiate our model, in this case
   ``iaf_psc_alpha``. We can modify the parameter `V_m` and set the value to
   `50.0`.

Rendered as

   Here we use the ``Create`` function to instantiate our model, in this case
   ``iaf_psc_alpha``. We can modify the parameters `V_m` and set the value to
   `50.0`.

\**Boldface\**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you want to emphasize a word or phrase in text, you can use **boldface**.

Author: Good point, I just have never seen the ** used outside of boldface. 

I have no strong opinions on the use of plain emphasis or basically any of these markups other than I feel italics are less noticeable than bold (or fixed width terms, especially in orange). I also think we should be careful how we use different formatting styles. **We** don't `want to `end up **with** sentences _like this_.

> If you want to emphasize a word or phrase in text, you can use **boldface**.

Reviewer 2: The general rule should be to use emphasis sparingly and we should make that clear.

How about the following:
- Plain emphasis when introducing *new terms* in a text, should then probably link to glossary
- Boldface only in **exceptional** cases when overlooking could cause severe problems but the text in question is too short to warrant an admonition box.
- Backticks (single or double, policy to be decided) for class, function, variable names and similar to be entered precisely so in code.

> If you want to emphasize a word or phrase in text, you can use **boldface**.

Author: These sound like good ideas to me, but note that if new terms are links to a glossary, they will be formatted as all other links of that role type.

NumPy style docstrings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the PyNEST code, we follow the rules for NumPy style docstrings as
`explained here <https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html>`_.

> reStructuredText markup

Author: I am rearranging the document, and putting the restructured  text header above

-----------------------

> Let us take a brief look into the markup of reStructuredText. You can find

Author: fixed

a full cheatSheet `here <https://thomas-cokelaer.info/tutorials/sphinx/

> rest_syntax.html>`_.

Author: cheat sheet is removed, docutils and sphinx docs used instead

.. note::

   reStructuredText is sensitive to indentation. A single newline should always
   be between any text and headings, tables, reference labels, or directives.
   If the output format seems incorrect, double check the spaces and newlines

>    of the text.

Reviewer 2: And add a link to the Doc Workflow document about how to build the documentation so you can check at all. We have no control over how people arrive at this page, so this page may be the first they read when looking for documentation about NEST.

>    of the text.

Author: link added

Code and code snippets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For writing Python code, you can use the double colon

 \::

Rendered as

   ::

       python code here

       x = 1

       for i in line:
           x = i
           print(thing.x)

For other code styles use the code-block directive (you can also use this one

> for python)

Reviewer 2: If I  wanted to use "this" for Python, it would presumably have to be

``
.. code-block:: python
``

\   .. code-block:: cpp

Rendered as

    .. code-block:: cpp

       int main()
       {
         cout << "Hello, World!";
         return 0;
       }

For input/output examples use the following syntax

::

   >>> input begins with 3, right-angled brackets
   output is directly below input without any brackets

Directives
~~~~~~~~~~~

This is not a complete guide to the directives of reStructuredText. For more
options see `Sphinx directives <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/
restructuredtext/directives.html>`_ or `Docutils section on directives
<http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html>`_.

Equations
^^^^^^^^^

> For equations, use LaTeX markup:

Reviewer 2: Add information about inline math as well.

Author: This has been reworded

::

    .. math::

>             f(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \hat f(\xi)\ e^{2 \pi i x \xi}\,d\xi,

Reviewer 2: I am not sure I agree with the LaTeX typesetting here. If I remember my Knuth correctly, it should be
```suggestion
            f(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \hat{f}(\xi) \mathrm{e}^{2 \pi i x \xi} \mathrm{d}\xi \;.
```
The logic is as follows:
- LaTeX handles whitespace within math expressions automatically
- Since e and d are no variables, they should be set in roman
- In the example here, the equation is at the end of a sentence and should thus end with a fullstop. The fullstop is set off with a slightly wider space from the equation.

The same changes apply to the "rendered" line below.

Author: I copied this from somewhere (Wikipedia?) as my LaTeX equation knowledge is virtually non-existent; so if it renders, I interpret it to be correct.
Do we need some sort of reference here to show how to properly format LaTeX?

Reviewer 2: I modified my suggestion above. There are different schools of thought especially on whether to use roman face for Euler's constant e  and the differential d, and concerning spacing before punctuation. I would suggest the following references for mathematics style:
- [Mathematics into Type](http://www.ams.org/arc/styleguide/mit-2.pdf) by Swanson et al (1999), published by the American Mathematical Society (AMS)
- [AMS Style Guide](http://www.ams.org/publications/authors/AMS-StyleGuide-online.pdf), essentially the same guidelines as in *Mathematics into Type* but even more detailed, aimed at copy editors
- Wikipedia guidelines on [Typesetting of mathematical formulae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Mathematics#Typesetting_of_mathematical_formulae)

Those all agree that Euler's `e` and integral's `d` are italicised, that a thin space (`\,`) is to be manually inserted before `dx` and that there is no spacing between and equation and punctuation following it. AMS does *not* insert a space before Euler's `e` in `f(x) e^x`, see the examples in Sec 13.11 of the AMS Style Guide.

Author: Fixed, i added only the first refernece in the styleguide as I think that should be enough

Rendered as

    .. math::

>             f(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \hat f(\xi)\ e^{2 \pi i x \xi}\,d\xi,

Reviewer 2: Is it possible to enumerate equations and refer to them? Would we want to encourage that? Or discourage?

Author: Yes, you can use the label option (from Sphinx website: When given, it selects an internal label for the equation, by which it can be cross-referenced, and causes an equation number to be issued). 

Being able to cross-reference would be really nice. However, I don't know how the equation numbers are issued over different files. I can look into this

Admonitions
^^^^^^^^^^^

> Use admonitions to draw readers attention to a particular point. Possible
> admonitions types include

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use admonitions to draw the reader's attention to a particular point. Possible
admonition types include
```

"see also", "attention", "caution", "danger", "error", "hint", "important",
"note", "tip", "warning", "admonition"

> If you want a custom admonition use

Reviewer 2: This leave me unsure if I could choose any "custom name" myself or are limited to the list given above. But the the "admonition types include" above suggests there are more—where would I find a complete list?

Should we restrict use to certain admonition types in NEST to avoid too much variety?

Author: I think this is the complete list, but I don't think we should use them all,  and perhaps we should specify when to use one or the other. I think right now we have used note, see also, and warning, and possibly important,

Author: Updated text

::

   .. admonition:: custom name

         Here is some text

Rendered as

   .. admonition:: custom name

         Here is some text

Roles
~~~~~

> See `the roles section in the Sphinx docs <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/

Reviewer 2: I wonder if the split between roles and directives is not too technical, especially if it has not been explained before. As a doc writer, I want to put in math, probably mixing inline and displayed math, and then I would look for "how to put in math" and would expect information on inline and displayed math in one place.

I also find the term "Role" in RST-lingo very confusing.

Author: Good point, I'll update this.

master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html>`_ for details.

In-text math
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> For in-text math, use

Reviewer 2: Could point out that full LaTeX formatting can be used.

::

   Now we can see :math:`x=1` for this example.

This will be rendered as

   Now we can see :math:`x=1` for this example.

Referencing
^^^^^^^^^^^

> For referencing reStructuredText files in repository, use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For referencing reStructuredText files within the documentation, use
```

::

   :doc:`file`

::

>    :doc:`custom name <path/file>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :doc:`custom label <path/file>`
```

This will be rendered as

   :doc:`file`

>    :doc:`custom name <file>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :doc:`custom label <file>`
```

For section headings, you can use either of the two examples below. But to
reference figures or arbitrary places in a file, you must include a custom

> name (second example) in the reference for it to work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
label (second example) in the reference for it to work.
```

::

    :ref:`ref_name`

or

::

>     :ref:`custom name <ref_name>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    :ref:`custom label <ref_name>`
```

Rendered as

    :ref:`ref_name`

>     :ref:`custom name <ref_name>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    :ref:`custom label <ref_name>`
```

.. note::

    The `ref_name` needs to be above the section you want to reference with the

>     following syntax

Reviewer 2: Is the empty line between the ref name and the section header required? If so, point it out.

Author: done

    ::

>         .. _ref_name:

Reviewer 2: Should we have conventions for reference names? My personal practice in LaTeX is to use a prefix indicating the type of material labeled, eg `fig_`, `eq_`, `sec_`, ... .

Author: This is a good idea, but I don't think we've done this up to this point in the restructured text files.

>         secton_header

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        section_header
```

        --------------

Special links
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. attention::

>   The items in this section are still in development and have not been incorporated into nest:master!

Reviewer 2: In what sense are they still in development? We are using standard Sphinx features here, aren't we? And is the `nest:master` notation clear?

Author: These are all PRs or soon-to-be PRs in different stages of development.

> To link PyNEST API functions used in-text to the API reference page use the following syntax:

Reviewer 2: `PyNEST API functions` should link to an explanation in the glossary.

Author: Why is that? We don't want to duplicate information that's already in the API docstring, is there additional information we need that would justify a separate glossary entry?

Reviewer 2: I did not mean linking the individual functions to the glossary, I meant that we should have a glossary entry for the term "PyNEST API function" itself: what makes a function a part of the PyNEST API vs a function that is (just) part of the PyNEST code base.

::

>    :py:func:`.Create`

Reviewer 3: Just out of interest: do you have plans to add these automatically by scanning all double-backtick-delimited code and matching against the list of known things (PyNEST functions, models, ...)? I think this would be really awesome and make the process of documentation writing much more pleasant.

Reviewer 2: Indeed. 

Should this then result in a general recommendation that wherever a part (module, class, method, function) from the PyNEST API is mentioned in the documentation, one should use 
```
:py:func:`.Create`
```
instead of 
```
``Create``
```
And how would that then integrate with `nest.Create("iaf_psc_alpha")`?

Author: @jougs @heplesser The PR to add links is in draft mode  #2010.

Rendered as

   :py:func:`.Create`

> To link terms to the glossary page use the HoverXTooltip role from Mahdi Enan (INM-6)

Reviewer 3: Can we link to somewhere from the name? Maybe a GitHub repository or such?

Reviewer 2: Is this role available from a general repository for Sphinx/RST resources? Does it need to be installed? If it is not available from general source, I think we should include the necessary code in the NEST repo to avoid dependencies on personal repos.

Reviewer: Or under the NEST or INM-6 account/organisation, so it can be used by NESTML as well!

Author: @jougs @heplesser @clinssen Mahdi developed this Sphinx extension in the INM-6 repo: https://github.com/INM-6/HoverXTooltip, It was put there as recommended by @terhorstd, since he knows more about the regulations and best practices to this kind of thing. I can add a link to the repo if that is appropriate.

Until this Hovertooltip is discussed and merged, same with the links to functions and intersphinx, I'd want to remove these  from the styleguide. I put them here now in case their PRs are ready while this one is still open.

::

  :hxt_ref:`E_L`

To link to external projects (PyNN, Elephant, nestml), you can treat references as you would in your local project
with the addition of the intersphinx unique identifer (see also conf.py >  intersphinx_mapping).

::

  :doc:`tuturial for nestml <nestml:tutorials>`
  :py:func:`pyNN.utility.get_simulator`

Bibliography style
------------------

The reStructuredText reference style is used throughout documentation so links
are autogenerated and a consistent format is used.

For in-text citations, we use the reStructuredText numeric style ``[1]_``.

For example:

.. code-block:: none

    The following example is based on Smith [1]_.
    [2]_ contains a technically detailed description.

Please ensure your reference follows the following guidelines:

* References with more than 5 authors use 'et al.'.
* Use initials for first name of authors
* Surname precedes first name for all authors
* No comma follows surname
* Full stop after every section of bibliography.
* No formatting such as italics, bold, or underline.
* Full title of journal
* Article titles written in sentence case

> * Year follows author(s), in parentheses

Reviewer 2: Move this after information on author names, so it is in the order of appearance in the bib entry.

Author: done

* Volume, can be optionally followed by issue in parentheses,  a colon
  separates volume and page range.
* Include a linked DOI, if available

> .. code-block:: none

Reviewer 2: Why this code block?

Author: I think I wanted to use the `::` but this causes odd highlighting so the code-block (none) removes the highlighting. But I realized I don't actually need it those at all.

 References
 -----------

 .. [1] Smith J. and Jones M (2009). Title of cool paper. Journal of
        Awesomeness. 3:7-29. <DOI>

 .. [2] Sander M., et al (2011). Biology of the sauropod dinosaurs: the
        evolution of gigantism. Biological Reviews. 86(1):117-155.
        https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-185X.2010.00137.x

How we write
------------

Headings and subheadings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Headings and subheadings should describe the purpose of the section.

Reviewer 2: Should this be a bullet or enumerated list?
```suggestion
Headings and subheadings describe the purpose of the section.
```

Begin with a descriptive verb or begin with `How to ...`

> Headings should explain the section in a short phrase.

Reviewer 2: How does this relate to the first point?

```suggestion
Headings explain the section in a short phrase.
```

Use the verb stem and not the gerund ('ing') form of verbs. Not 'Adding a
model', but  'Add a model'.

Avoid section names like `Introduction` or `Part 1`.

> One word subheadings are acceptable, if the section is short and the meaning is clear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One-word subheadings are acceptable, if the section is short and the meaning is clear.
```

Use sentence case for headings and subheadings, i.e., begin with an uppercase

> letter but with all other words in lower case (except proper nouns).

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we should enforce this in displaying by using a CSS `text-transform` on the resulting `<hX>`tags. Or would you rather enforce this by having a linting check during the static code check phase in the CI?

Reviewer 2: There will always be exceptions, e.g. when `NEST` is part of a heading ...

+-----------------------------------+----------------+
| Good examples:                    | Bad examples:  |
+===================================+================+
| Create your first neural network  | Start here     |
+-----------------------------------+----------------+
| How to set up and configure MUSIC | MUSIC and NEST |
+-----------------------------------+----------------+
| Add a device to your network      | Adding devices |
+-----------------------------------+----------------+

Numbers
~~~~~~~

Numbers should be spelled out if they begin a sentence. In most cases, however,

> the numeral/ordinal format is preferred.

Reviewer 2: Isn't the general rule that numbers up to twelve are written out?

Author: Yes or 0-9, or 0-10 or 0-100 depending on who you ask :). but there are also exceptions - I'm just looking at the [MS style guide for all their exceptions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/numbers)

 But the text could be more precise, and we could specify important exceptions relevant to NEST.

> For additional mathematical notation, use the math role or directive.

Reviewer 2: Add links to math doc.

We use the period for the decimal point. (`57.45`)

The thousand separator is the comma except when showing a code example

   Example:

   We have over 5,000 connections.

>    The number of connections is ``x = 5000``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The number of connections is ``x = 5001``
```
> only to justify the word *over* in the line above ;-)

Make sure you use the correct unit (e.g., millivolts for voltage) and the

> unit's syntax (`V_m`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
unit's symbol (`V_m`).
```
Without this change, the sentence does not compute for me.

Reviewer 2: I am confused here. `V_m` is not a unit, it is a parameter name. Could you give a complete example (complete sentence)?

Reviewer: Is a reference to nest::names appropriate here?

Reviewer 3: @heplesser: you're right. What about so:

```suggestion
unit's symbol (`mV`).
```

Lists
~~~~~

> Use ordered lists for step-by-step instructions only. Do not have more that 2

Reviewer 2: ordered = numbered lists?

Author: yes, numbered is much more clear than ordered

related actions in one step.

> Use bullet lists to improve clarity of long lists (more than 5 items).

Reviewer 2: So what kind of list type to use for up to four items?
```suggestion
Use bullet lists to improve clarity of long lists (more than five items).
```

> If bullet/ordered list text is a complete sentence, use proper punctuation and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the text in a list forms a complete sentence, use proper punctuation and
```

end with period.

> If bullet/ordered list text is an incomplete sentence, do not end with period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the text of a list does not from an incomplete sentence, do not end with period.
```

If bullet/ordered list belongs to a sentence, use commas to separate each item

> with the second last time including `and` at end.

Reviewer 3: In this case, I usually use a period after the last item to indicate the end of the list sentence. I think we should mention if we want this or not.

Author: added

> If bullet/ordered list belongs to a sentence, use commas to separate each item
> with the second last time including `and` at end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a list is part of a sentence, end each item with a comma and the second-last item with ", and". If the sentence ends with the last item on the list, end it with a fullstop, otherwise use the punctuation required to correctly connect to the remainder of the sentence.
```

Pronouns
~~~~~~~~

Use the pronouns "you" and "we" whenever possible.

Avoid the pronoun "I".

> Avoid gendered terms (NOT police man BUT police officer).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid gendered terms (use "police officer" instead of "policeman").
```

> Instead of "guys" or "girls" use inclusive language such as everyone, all,
> members, or folks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of "guys" or "girls" use inclusive language such as "everyone", "all",
"members", or "folks".
```

Author: I know in a previous comment I mentioned the use of quotes can be interpreted as sarcasm, but reading this I find the quotes to be suitable and correct.  I think it's that this sentence is about these words, whereas I was thinking of misusing quotes to emphasize a part of the sentence in way that modifies the tone.

Reviewer 2: I agree: when writing about specific words as words, quotes are in place, as they would be when quoting directly, although that is probably a very rare case in NEST documentation. Should we extend the recommendations on use of quotes correspondingly?

"They" is an acceptable singular third person pronoun

> (see `here <www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/they>`_).

Reviewer 2: I really wished there was a good term to express third-person singular for those who are neither "he" nor "she", without confusing singular and plural. In Norwegian and Swedish and Danish we have "hen" to complement "han" and "hun", but I guess we just got lucky here with an easy starting point. But for now we should follow the developments in American English as you suggest.

Abbreviations and acronyms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Spell out acronyms on first appearance on each page or article it appears.

> For example: Random number generator (rng)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example: Random number generator (RNG)
```
Or should abbreviations really be lower case?

Reviewer 2: Link to glossary as well where that makes sense.

If the abbreviation/acronym is well known (e.g., HTML) you do not need to spell
it out.

Commas
~~~~~~

> Use the oxford comma (apples, bananas, and grapes) for lists. But use a bullet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the serial comma (apples, bananas, and grapes) for lists. But use a bullet
```

> list if your list is more than 5 items.

Reviewer 2: Doesn't the question of bullet list vs inline not also depend on the length of the individual items?

Author: Yes, good point. This may be too much of an over-generalization.

Author: reworded

Use the comma as separator for thousands (37,000).

To join two sentences into one, you must use a conjunction (and, or , but)
along with the comma, or use the semicolon.

Sentences and paragraphs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Avoid using `So` and `However` at the beginning of sentences.
Try to keep sentences short, or break up long sentences with short ones.

Avoid lengthy paragraphs with more than 5 or 6 sentences.
If writing multiple paragraphs, they should be broken up by example code, figures, or bullet lists.
Keep in mind that texts should be skimmable.

Ampersand
~~~~~~~~~

Avoid the ampersand '`&`' and use '`and`' instead unless the ampersand is part
of a proper name (e.g., Ben \& Jerry's).

Capitalization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Capitalize first word of heading, but use lower case for the rest.

Capitalize first word in bullet.

Capitalize proper nouns and follow company policy in naming conventions

> (e.g., macOS, LaTeX).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(e.g., macOS, LaTeX, Python, NumPy, NEST).
```
